---
tags:
  - Upper-Intermediate
  - 7A
---
Living in a shared student house can be one of university's greatest pleasures, but arguments will happen. What are the solutions?
--

#### Who gets the biggest room when moving in?
**There's always one housemate who is convinced they have the right to the biggest room.**
  ***Solutions:***
- Adjust the rent, so that the person with the biggest room pays more.
- Before you move in, get everyone to write their name on a piece of paper, and put the min a hat. The first person to be picked chooses first.

#### The mess in the kitchen
**You come home from a long day at uni and can't get to the sink because of the enormous pile of pots and pans.**
  ***Solutions:***
- Establish the 30-minute rule - nothing stays unwashed for over 30 minutes.
- Have a rota for all jobs, including washing-up drying, cleaning, and tidying.

#### The housemate whose boyfriend / girlfriend spends more time in your house than their own
**They definitely do not live at your house, but you see them more than some of your housemates. And they use the electricity, the water, the wi-fi...**
  ***Solutions:***
- Explain why it's annoying. It isn't personal, but with them there, there's less space for the rest of you.
- Suggest that if they are going to stay over often, then maybe they should contribute to rent / bills.

#### How to pay and split the bills
**The joint account seemed like a good idea until some people's money stopped going in, and the direct debit 'bounced' (incurring a charge), and the electricity bill, which was enormous, was forgotten about (another charge), and someone has gone to South America for three months.
  ***Solutions:***
- Get everyone to put in more money than will be needed in the account - then later pay the excess back (this is a good way of keeping a little extra cash in reserve, too).
- Don't pay in your share, either, and wait until the wi-fi gets cut off. Then suddenly, everyone will pay.

#### Taking too long in the bathroom
**What are they doing in there?**
  ***Solutions:***
- Have a kind word about the fact that there's only one bathroom.
- If you often need to get ready at similar times, take turns to go first.

#### When they come in at 3 a.m.,
**waking everybody up the night before an exam.**
  ***Solutions:***
- Make sure your housemates know if you have to be up early for something. Likewise, let them know if you intend to be back late.
- Get some ear plugs. Wax ones are the best.

#### Food stealing, 'borrowing' clothes, etc.
**'It was just there, so I took it.'**
  ***Solutions:***
- Label your stuff, so that it's obvious what's yours.
- Make sure everyone has their own fridge shelf space and cupboard space.

#### Who can't cook, who won't cook?
**Why is it always you who's left alone to make dinner in the evening? How come as soon as you've finished, everyone suddenly appears?**
  ***Solutions:***
- Draw up a cooking rota, so you know whose turn it is.
- Encourage everyone to have a go. Don't criticize other people's attempts. Try to help them improve.