---
tags:
  - Upper-Intermediate
  - 7B
---

**How easy is it to know whether someone is telling the truth or lying?** Some people aren't very good at pretending, whilst others are far more expert. Most of us are familiar with the kind of body language which tends to indicate deception, such as avoiding eye contact, blushing, fidgeting, or laughing nervously; and identifying whether somebody is telling the truth can be fairly straightforward with people we know well, our children, family, or friends. However, research shows that relying only on body language to spot a liar is in fact very unreliable, especially when you are not familiar with how a person usually behaves. In fact, according to one study, just one in 400 people manage to make a correct judgement based on non-verbal indicators with more than 80% accuracy. Just because someone looks nervous does not mean they are guilty, and in more formal contexts, such as interviewing crime suspects or in security screening at airports, the consequences or getting in wrong can be very serious. So, my research team and I devised an experiment to develop a more reliable method of lie detection, which relies not on how people behave, but on what they say.
We tested out our method on passengers at airport security. Firstly, we recruited a selection of 'fake' passengers of different nationalities, such as American, German, Swiss, and Canadian, and offered them an extra fee if they managed to pass through a security interview without being spotted. Each person prepared a convincing cover story about their life and work history and the purpose of their plane journey. They were all given valid tickets and passports, and were asked to dress appropriately and carry suitable luggage. A team of trained officers then made a random selection of passengers passing through security, and carried out specially constructed interviews in order to try to spot the 'fakes.'
**So, what kinds of things did the officers ask in these interviews?** These are the key principles we used to increase the chance of finding out if someone was lying:

#### Build rapport
Officers were asked to give the impression that this was a fairly casual conversation, and to put passengers at their ease with general, friendly questions such as 'How are you today?' and 'Did you have a good trip to the airport?'.

#### Ask open questions
We told officers to use questions such as 'Can you tell me about...?', 'Can you explain to me who...?' and so on, that required passengers to give more information, rather than just answering 'yes' or 'no'.

#### Use surprise questions
Passengers were asked, for example, for extra information about a family member or about the company that they worked for; handling unexpected questions is more difficult for a liar than far a truthful person.

#### Try to find contradictions
Officers were encouraged to ask follow-up questions to test passengers' statements. For example, if the passenger claimed to work in Oxford, the officer might ask them about their journey to work, to check if they could report that accurately, and to try to spot any gaps in expected knowledge.

#### Look for changes in style
Liars are often more confident when they feel in control of a conversation, but if they start to feel undermined or challenged, they begin to limit their responses. We told officers to watch out for people who started to reply with much shorter answers, or who showed a tendency to become evasive in their answers, not replying directly to the questions.

The aim was to put all passengers under gentle pressure, which would increase the chance that something a 'fake' passenger might reveal during a conversation would give them away. The officers were also told not to pick up a lie immediately - rather, to encourage the liar to continue to talk, and then to challenge them when they were sure they were lying. And the results were striking. The security officers using our interview technique were over 20 times more likely to detect the lying passengers than officers using traditional behaviour observation methods.