### General idea

- How easy is it to **know whether someone is telling the truth or lying**?
- Some people **aren’t very good at pretending**, others are more expert.
- **Most of us are familiar with the kind of body language which tends to indicate deception** (e.g., avoiding eye contact, blushing, fidgeting, laughing nervously).
- **Identifying whether somebody is telling the truth can be fairly straightforward with people we know well** (children, family, friends).
- **Relying only on body language to spot a liar is very unreliable** if we don’t know their normal behavior.
- Study: only **one in 400 people** can make a **correct judgement** based on **non-verbal indicators** with >80% accuracy.
- Nervousness ≠ guilt.
- **In more formal contexts** (e.g., interviewing suspects, airport screening) **the consequences of getting it wrong can be very serious**.

### The experiment

- Research team **devised an experiment** to develop a more reliable method of lie detection — **relies not on how people behave, but on what they say**.
- Setting: airport security.
- **Recruited a selection of 'fake' passengers of different nationalities** (American, German, Swiss, Canadian).
- They got an extra fee if they passed without being spotted.
- Each prepared a **convincing cover story** about life, work, and purpose of trip.
- Given **valid tickets and passports**, told to **dress appropriately** and **carry suitable luggage**.
- Trained officers randomly selected passengers for **specially constructed interviews** to find the ‘fakes.’

### Key principles for spotting lies

1. **Build rapport**
    - **Give the impression this is a fairly casual conversation**.
    - **Put passengers at their ease** (e.g., “How are you today?”).

2. **Ask open questions**
    - Use prompts that **require passengers to give more information** (“Can you tell me about…?”).

3. **Use surprise questions**
    - **Handling unexpected questions is more difficult for a liar than for a truthful person**.

4. **Find contradictions**
    - **Ask follow-up questions** to check facts.
    - Look for missing or inconsistent details.

5. **Look for changes in style**
    - Liars **more confident when in control of the conversation**.
    - If **undermined or challenged**, they **limit their responses** and may become **evasive**.

### Strategy & results
- **The aim was to put all passengers under gentle pressure**.
- Officers were told **not to pick up a lie immediately**, but to let liars talk, then challenge later.
- Officers using the method were **over 20 times more likely to detect lying passengers** than with traditional behavior observation.