---
title: What's your personality?
tags:
  - Angol
---

# What's your personality?

## A **PLANNER** or **SPONTANEOUS**
1. **Are you ...?**
<ol style="list-style-type: lower-alpha;">
  <li>a perfectionist who hates leaving things unfinished</li>
  <li>someone who hates being under pressure and tends to overprepare</li>
  <li>a bit disorganized and forgetful</li>
  <li>someone who puts things off until the last minute</li>
</ol>

2. **Imagine you have bought a piece of furniture that requires assembly (e.g. a wardrobe or a cupboard). Which of these are you mare likely to do?**
<ol style="list-style-type: lower-alpha;">
  <li>Check that you have all the items and the tools you need before you start.</li>
  <li>Carefully read the instructions and follow them to the letter.</li>
  <li>Quickly read through the instructions to get the basic idea of what you have to do.</li>
  <li>Start assembling it right away. Check the instructions only if you get stuck.</li>
</ol>

3. **Before you go on holiday, which of these do you do?**
<ol style="list-style-type: lower-alpha;">
  <li>Plan every detail of your holiday.</li>
  <li>Put together a rough itinerary, but make sure you leave yourself plenty of free time.</li>
  <li>Get an idea of what kinds of things you can do, but not make a decision until you get there.</li>
  <li>Book the holiday at the last minute and plan hardly anything in advance.</li>
</ol>

## B **FACTS** or **IDEAS**
4. **Which option best describes what you wrote about the painting in _b_ on page 8?**
<ol style="list-style-type: lower-alpha;">
  <li>It's basically a list of what appears in the painting.</li>
  <li>It tells the story of what's happening in the painting.</li>
  <li>It tries to explain what the painting means.</li>
  <li>It's a lot of ideas that the painting made you think of.</li>
</ol>

5. **You need to give a friend directions to your house in the country. Do you ...?**
<ol style="list-style-type: lower-alpha;">
  <li>write a list of detailed directions</li>
  <li>give them the postcode and expect them to use a satnav</li>
  <li>give rough directions</li>
  <li>draw a simple map showing only the basic directions</li>
</ol>

6. **When you go shopping at the supermarket, do you ...?**
<ol style="list-style-type: lower-alpha;">
  <li>always go down the same aisles in the same order</li>
  <li>carefully check prices and compare products</li>
  <li>buy whatever catches your eye</li>
  <li>go round a different way each time, according to what you want to buy</li>
</ol>

## C **HEAD** or **HEART**
7. **If an argument starts when you are with friends, do you ...?**
<ol style="list-style-type: lower-alpha;">
  <li>face it head-on and say what you think</li>
  <li>try to find a solution yourself</li>
  <li>try to keep everyone happy</li>
  <li>do anything to avoid hurting people's feelings</li>
</ol>

8. **Imagine you had the choice between two flats to rent. Would you ...?**
<ol style="list-style-type: lower-alpha;">
  <li>write what your ideal flat would be like and then see which one was the most similar</li>
  <li>make a list of the pros and cons of each one</li>
  <li>just go with your gut feeling</li>
  <li>consider carefully how each flat would suit the other people living with you</li>
</ol>

9. **Imagine a friend of yours started going out with someone new, and they asked you for your opinion. If you really didn't like the person, would you ...?**
<ol style="list-style-type: lower-alpha;">
  <li>tell them exactly what you thought</li>
  <li>be honest, but as tactful as possible</li>
  <li>try to avoid answering the question directly</li>
  <li>tell a white lie</li>
</ol>

## D **INTROVERT** or **EXTROVERT**
10. **You are out with a group of friends. Do you ...?**
<ol style="list-style-type: lower-alpha;">
  <li>say hardly anything</li>
  <li>say a little less than most people</li>
  <li>talk a lot</li>
  <li>do nearly all the talking</li>
</ol>

11. **When you meet a new group of people, do you ...?**
<ol style="list-style-type: lower-alpha;">
  <li>try to stay with people you already know</li>
  <li>have to think hard about how to keep the conversation going</li>
  <li>try to get to know as many people as possible</li>
  <li>just enjoy yourself</li>
</ol>

12. **If your phone rings while you are in the middle of something, do you ...?**
<ol style="list-style-type: lower-alpha;">
  <li>ignore it and carry on with what you're doing</li>
  <li>answer it quickly, but say you'll call back</li>
  <li>have a conversation, but make sure you keep it short</li>
  <li>welcome the interruption and enjoy a nice long chat</li>
</ol>