---
tags:
  - Angol
---
**There are five things that every parent should know about how children learn language.**
--

### 1. It begins early

Children don't even wait until they are born to start learning to language. Speech can be heard in the womb clearly enough to identify the basic rhythm and certain features of the speaker's voice. At birth, babies prefer their mother's voice to other female voices, the language of their parents over other languages, and they are able to recognize that an English sentence does not sound the same as a French sentence.

---

### 2. It happens fast

Between age two and six, children average ten new words a day. By age six, they have a vocabulary of about 14,000 words, and over the next few years, they learn as many as twenty new words per day. At the beginning they rely on simple strategies. One is to assume that new words refer to objects, rather than to a colour, or texture, or activities. If a father points to a sheep and says *sheep*, his eighteen-month-old daughter assumes that 'sheep' refers to the animal itself, not to the fact that it's white, or wooly, or munching on grass. Perhaps the most important strategy involves noticing subtle clues in the behaviour of adults. For example, realizing that adults tend to look at the thing they are talking about makes it a lot easier to understand the meaning of what is said.

---

### 3. No two children are the same

Some children are initially better than others at identifying individual words and at pronouncing them clearly. Be eighteen months, they can name people (*Daddy*, *Mummy*) and objects (*cat*, *car*), and they use simple words like *up*, *hot*, and *hungry* to describe how they feel and what they want. Other children memorize and produce relatively large chunks of speech, even though they are often poorly articulated: *whatsat* (What's that?), *dunno* (I don't know), *awgone* (It's all gone), and it's unlikely that children know what the component parts are.

---

### 4. Errors are good

Children make many mistakes when they learn language, such as 'goed' for went or 'eated' for ate. Mistakes mean that children are discovering the rules of English - adding -ed to a verb is the basic way to ford the past tense in English. It may take several hundred exposures to the right past tense form of a verb before all the errors are eliminated, but mistakes are a normal part of the language acquisition process, and they disappear as a normal part of that same process.

---

### 5. It's what you say

Children most need to hear language being used to talk about things they can see and feel, what they have just experienced or are about to experience. This provides the raw material they need to figure out what words mean, where a subject of a direct object fits into a sentence, how to ask a question, and all the other things that make up language. So, talk to children about what matters to them. They will take care of the rest.