---
tags:
  - Angol
---

# History brought to life

Two film critics choose memorable moments from historical films
--

## Gladiator

**Gladiator**, which won five Oscars, tells the story of a Roman general, Maximus Decimus Meridius, a favourite of Marcus Aurelius, Emperor in the second century AD. The Emperor wants Maximus (Russell Crowe at his best) to succeed him, but Commodus, the Emperor's weak and treacherous son (wonderfully played by Joaquin Phoenix), has other plans. Commodus kills his father and becomes Emperor himself, and arranges for Maximus and his wife and child to be executed. Maximus escapes, but cannot save his family. He is captured and sold as a gladiator, and eventually makes his way to the Colosseum in Rome, where he becomes a hero by engineering a spectacular victory against overwhelming odds. In this gripping scene, Emperor Commodus descends to the arena to congratulate him - not knowing his true identity. Maximus confronts the Emperor in one of the most stirring speeches in modern cinema: 'My name is Maximus Decimus Meridius, commander of the armies of the north, general of the Felix Legions, loyal servant to the true Emperor, Marcus Aurelius, father to a murdered son, husband to a murdered wife, and I will have my vengeance in this life or the next.' And somehow, we just know he's going to get it!

---

## The Darkest Hour

**The Darkest Hour** is set in May 1940, early in World War II. German forces are winning the battle for Europe, and British soldiers are trapped in northern France. Winston Churchill, the new Prime Minister, is faced with a desperate decision - to continue the fight against Hitler and the Nazis, or to negotiate a peace treaty. Unable to decide what to do, and under pressure from Parlament to negotiate, Churchill decides that he needs to find out what the people want. For the first time in his life, he travels on the London Underground, where he asks his startled fellow passengers two questions. First, he asks, 'What would you do if the enemy invaded?' and they answer 'Fight!' Then he asks them, 'Should I negotiate with Hitler?' and their answer is a very clear 'Never!' Churchill is inspired by their certainty, and goes on to use their words in one of his most famous speeches: 'We shall fight on the beaches, we shall fight on the landing grounds, we shall fight in the fields and in the streets, we shall fight in the hills; we shall never surrender.'
This is the key scene in the whole film, but unlike almost all the rest of the film, it has been criticized for its historical inaccuracy - Churchill's ride on the Tube never happened. The director, Joe Wright, has defended the scene as 'a fictionalization of an emotional truth'. Does it matter? Not to the awards committees, who gave the film two Oscars and numerous other awards.