---
title: How being quiet can change your life
tags:
  - Angol
---

# How being quiet can change your life

**Silence is on the rise. Whole businesses have sprung up to meet a rising demand for quiet time, from silent weekends away to silent dining, silent reading parties, and even silent dating. We usually only spend silent time with those closest to us, so there is something quite radical about the recent trend for enjoying silence with strangers.**

The concept of **silent reading** began in Seattle, USA. Devised as a literary meeting place for people who don't like book discussion groups, the idea was simple: show up, shut up, and read. Then the trend spread to the UK. Mariel Symeonidou started a regular silent reading party in Dundee, where they read together in silence for an hour or two, then put the books away to chat and have a drink. 'When the reading starts, everything goes quiet,' says Symeonidou. 'There is something special about sharing silence with others. An event like this gives people the opportunity to escape the hubbub of their lives for a while.'

London's **silent speed dating** event organizers, _Shhh!_, say that we are 'instinctively better at choosing the right partner when we have the chance to put aside words and see each other as we really are'. _Shhh!_ hosts regular singles events which are very popular with creative professionals in their 20s and 30s. The sessions begin with games to break the ice. Then you are paired off for a limited time, when you are allowed to communicate only with gestures, before engaging in 60 seconds of uninterrupted eye contact. Afterwards, you are given the contact details of people who are interested in you. A second date might be something like a silent dinner date or a mute trip to the pictures.
Honi Ryan, from Berlin, began hosting **silent dinners** over ten years ago. The rules of the dinner are: no talking, no using your voice, no reading or writing, try to make as little noise as possible, do not interact with technology, and stay for at least two hours. So far, Ryan has hosted silent dinners in Mexico, the USA, Australia, Lebanon, and Chine. 'It's evident that the age-old connections we make over food do not depend on the words around it,' she says. 'Silence strips away our rehearsed social behaviours.'

Perhaps the most well-known event is the **silent retreat**. These often have a religious or spiritual element. They can last anywhere between a couple of days to a few weeks, and are usually held in remote locations. Peter Cadney first discovered the power of silence on a ten-day silent meditation course. 'There had been a number of events in my life that I hadn't been able to deal with very well - relationship break-ups and the death of a close friend. Also, I'd spent years working at a computer and was feeling the effects of muscle tension, anxiety, and stress.' Cadney says silent meditation has helped to improve both his mental and physical health. 'When I first sat down in silence, it felt very peaceful. I started noticing just how many thoughts were coming and going in my mind. It was as if there had been no space for silence.'

Silence is talking on a new meaning in an era in which we are consuming information and engaging in conversation with each other endlessly on social media, without ever opining our mouths. However, while we might cherish rare moments of peace and quiet, when it comes to embracing silence and stillness, the real question is, can we actually muster up the self-restraint?