---
tags:
  - Angol
---
**When I asked readers recently for examples of 'everyday things that represent non-capitalist living', I received a ==deluge== of replies. One reader said: 'Living in our consumer society, I am frequently filled with despair at the way things are going in the world at the moment, and doing this small thing at least makes me fell as though I'm doing something positive,' which really ==gets to the heart of== the idea.**

### 1. Freecycle as much as possible

When you're ==lumbered with something== you either don't want or don't need, you can connect via the interned with someone for whom it might have a use. Scores of readers recommended the Freecycle network and the UK group Freegle. You can get anything, from beds, pianos, and bikes, to a 'bag of make-up and toiletries, opened but still useable'.

---

### 2. Leave stuff outside for your neighbours
Chris Everitt lives in Berlin. 'We have a little covered alleyway just off our high street where people leave things all the time: books, furniture, clothes, ==knick-knacks==, even food. When you have something that no longer serves you in your life, you can place it there. Within a few hours, it will be part of someone else's life.'

---

### 3. Make your own clothes

'I no longer buy clothes,' says Clea Whitley, 33, from London. 'I make them myself. I do have to buy fabric and clothing patters, but I only buy what I need. It's not that I can't afford high-street clothes. But hopefully, with mine, no child labour, toxic chemicals, or animal cruelty are involved.'

---

### 4. Forget the gym

A 23-year-old graduate writes, 'I once had a gym membership: £25 a month to be breathing in warm air ==laced with== sweat, and listening to extremely loud pop music promoting a glamorous and affluent lifestyle. I now enjoy jogging in the park, where I can enjoy nature while exercising in a much healthier way. There are no mirrors to show you how 'good' or 'bad' you look, so no reasons to make yourself feel bad or ==pump up your ego==.'

---

### 5. Make your own spreadable butter

A small contribution, perhaps, but ingenious. You just have to mix butter with oil, preferably something without too strong a taste. 'It's easier to spread, and reduces the amount of butter we use,' advises a reader from London. 'It's an alternative to spread in plastic tubs, and those that use palm oil. I don't contribute to the destruction of the habitat or orangutans.'

---

### 6. Stop buying cleaning products

Not so long ago, one respondent had a look around their kitchen and bathroom and had a ==watershed moment==. 'Most of my household cleaning products have been replaced with a homemade mix of white vinegar and water, 1:3 parts. Bicarbonate of soda works, too.'

---

### 7. Go online, then visit the library

'Search for books on Amazon, read the reviews and then go to the public library,' advises Kath, from Oxford.

---

### 8. Get an allotment

'Keep fit by growing vegetables,' offers a retired teacher. 'We give the excess produce to people as we walk home after harvesting. In summer, we are self-sufficient as far as vegetables are concerned, and in winter we have enough potatoes, squash, and onions to use until March.'

---

### 9. Don't drive

'I have never driven a car,' says Sara Gaynor. 'I decided from 1988, after living in Copenhagen, that I would never be part of car culture and all that goes with it - petrol, pollution, traffic jams, the oil and advertising industries. I cycle every day to work. I do my shopping using my bike, and and my kids were brought up travelling around by bike and public transport.'

---

### 10. Use your TV remote

And finally, someone got in touch with this ==pearl of wisdom==: 'If you watch any TV at all, you can't avoid the adverts to buy this, buy that... Just turn the sound down when the adverts are on.'