---
title: A beginner's guide to divorcing your phone
tags:
  - Angol
---

# A beginner's guide to divorcing your phone

**What's the first thing you do when you wake up?** Read the news? Check your emails? Scroll through social media? Now, imagine your phone's not in the room. If that makes you feel uncomfortable, it may be time for a digital detox.
Tanya Goodin, a digital detox specialist, has devised a seven-day detox. She recommends first downloading a tracking app which measures how much time you spend looking at your screen and how many times a day you pick up your phone, so then you can compare your normal phone use with the end results.
## Rules for a digital detox

- Delete all social media apps from your phone; check these only from a desktop computer.
- Turn off all banner-style / pop-up / sound notifications from all other apps.
- Leave your phone in your pocket or somewhere where you can't see it for meetings / get-togethers / conversations / meals involving other people.
- Keep your phone out of sight during your commute.
- Don't take your phone with you into the bathroom or toilet.

## Challenges

### Day 1

Leave your phone outside your bedroom overnight; get an alarm clock or turn up the volume on your phone, so you can hear its alarm easily from your bed through the door. Continue this all week.

### Day 2

Put your phone in a central place when you return home and go to the location of the phone (rather than carrying it around with you) if you need to check it.

### Day 3

Take your work email account off your phone (notify everyone in advance that you're doing this)

### Day 4

Go out to dinner, lunch, or to an evening event / gym session and leave your phone behind.

### Day 5

Keep your phone on airplane mode as default all day; take it off this mode only when you need to use it.

### Days 6 and 7

Your complete digital detox: switch off your phone and put it away from 7.00 p.m. Friday to 8.00 a.m. Monday.


## Anisah

**Anisah Osman Britton**, 24, is the founder of 23 Code Street, a coding school for women. She has lived on a boat for the last five years with her dog.
**Before detox**
Daily phone screen time: 3 hours 50 minutes
Number of pick-ups a day: 88

I rely on my phone for everything; I leave my laptop at work, as there is no wi-fi on the boat. My top four apps are WhatsApp, Telegram, Instagram, and Twitter, and when it comes to deleting them, I think, 'I can do this!' I substitute Instagram with reading books and finish two by the end of the week, ==which makes me **cringe**== at how much time I must waste on my phone.
I struggle with insomnia and often wake up at 4.00 a.m. and scroll through my phone. I'm amazed that, ==without it **to hand**==, I simply go back to sleep. I set the alarm on my old-fashioned Casio watch now, and stay asleep a lot longer.
By day three, I'm feeling left out of my family's WhatsApp group, but I welcome talking work emails off my phone. ==Things **take a turn for the worse**== on day four, when I'm sick and have to stay home. I decide there is no way I'm doing it without my phone - I need it in bed with me - and I go back to checking work emails, WhatsApp-ing my family and watching dog videos on YouTube.
I'm not worried about switching my phone off at the weekend. I tell my family, and my business partner, Tom, that I'll speak to them on Monday. By Saturday lunchtime, ==I **have a meltdown**==. It's so dead and quiet; I can't even listen to music, as my only source is my phone. I don't see a single person until my neighbour knocks on my door on Sunday morning with some chocolate. I almost cry. Later, I walk to the supermarket, just so I can speak to someone. This is the worst weekend of my life.

### After the detox...
I couldn't cope with...not being able to take photos. I missed that so much. I can now do without... ==**flicking through** social media== in bed before getting up. I've given myself an extra hour in the morning.

**After detox**
Daily phone screen time: 3 hours
Number of pick-ups a day: 70