---
tags:
  - Angol
---
Our household at the moment is infested - sorry blessed - with cats. Six of them. Having got rid of one, Dylan, last year - may he rest in peace - leaving only his infirm and senile brother, Floss, behind, my wife accepted a kitten. This kitten has just given birth to four of her own fluffy balls. I have to admit that the expression 'cute as a kitten' does not seem to be an arbitrary one. They are extraordinarily loveable. They meow and play and generally make the world a fluffier place. I like them.

But I doubt that it will last. I am a lifelong pet sceptic. Confronted with the kittens, it briefly slipped my mind why I was sceptical. I am now beginning to remember. The house is starting to smell. Cats come on the bed in the morning at 6.00 a.m., sit on your head and wake you up. They drink the water in your bedside glass. If you close the door, they wait outside complaining until you open it, so they can sit on your head, etc. Their lovability is more than offset by their extraordinary flair in the art of being annoying.

My prejudice is not confined to cats - to dogs I am positively averse. They are needy, time-consuming, easy to trip over, and frequently smell bad. Also, they have been known to bite people - certainly a lot of dogs in my neighbourhood appear to have evolved specifically for this purpose.

There are people - 'animal-lovers' is the term - who find people like me, people who care very little about other species, barely human. If I were feeling apologetic, I would only say that I grew up in a house without pets, and so have never quite become acclimatized to them. My only pet was a stickleback I caught in the canal, which died after six hours in my mother's household bucket. And a tortoise, whose shell I found mysteriously empty one day.

But I'm not feeling apologetic. Should I feel sorry because I can stare at my children awestruck by love, but not feel the same way about another species? I cannot accept that people who don't much care for animals are emotionally defective. If anything, the sanctuary rather than research for, say, children's cancer, strikes me as profoundly cynical about the human race.

Human beings are difficult to love - they are complex, contrary, and they often let you down. Animals are simple and easy to love. But it's a soft opinion. My children appear to adore animals, but in a highly partial way. They ohh and aah when they see lambs frolicking in the fields, but then sit down and eat their Sunday lunch with mint sauce without a second thought. This is sentimentality rather than genuine love.

But for the moment, cynic or not, I am content to have the gorgeous balls of fluff around the house. Three are being given away, we're keeping one, and Floss can't be for this earthly realm much longer. That will leave us with two. I can live with that, just about, as long as no one asks me, ever, to clean out the litter tray.