---
title: Battle of the workouts
tags:
  - Angol
---

# Battle of the workouts

**WEIGHTS OR CIRCUITS? YOGA OR PILATES?** Making the decision to get fit is the easy part - choosing how to go about it is more difficult. We answer four key questions to help you decide for yourself.
1. **How quickly will it make a difference?**
2. **How many calories does it burn?**
3. **Will it keep me motivated?**
4. **What are the benefits?**

## **Weights** vs **Circuits**

### **Weights**

1. After the first session, your muscles will feel more toned, but significant changes will take three to four weeks.
2. 136-340 per hour, depending on weight lifted and the recovery time between repetitions.
3. If improved body tone is your goal, then yes.
4. Great for strengthening your muscles and improving overall bone density. Weight training speeds up the rate at which calories are burned, resulting in quicker weight loss.

### **Circuits**

1. After two weeks of twice-weekly circuits.
2. 476 per hour.
3. You are unlikely to get bored, as circuits can constantly change their content and order.
4. Circuits address every element of fitness - aerobic, strength, balance, and flexibility. A good instructor should introduce new tools, like skipping ropes and weights, to make sure you are always developing new skills.

---

## **Yoga** vs **Pilates**

### **Yoga**

1. After eight weeks of thrice-weekly sessions.
2. 102 per hour for a class based on stretching. Power yoga burns 245 per hour.
3. Yoga is about attaining a sense of unity between body and mind, rather than achieving personal targets. However, you will feel a sense of accomplishment as you master the poses and there are lots of different types to try.
4. The American Council on Exercise found that people who did yoga for eight weeks experienced a 13% improvement in flexibility. They were also able to perform six more press-ups and 14 more sit-ups at the end of the study.

### **Pilates**

1. After five to six weeks of thrice-weekly sessions.
2. 170-237 an hour.
3. Once you start noticing positive changes in the way you move and hold your body, Pilates is hard to give up
4. Widely used by dancers and top athletes, Pilates improves your posture and strength. It develops the abdominal muscles which support the trunk.

---

## **Spinning** vs **Step**

### **Spinning**

1. After two to three weeks of twice-weekly sessions.
2. 408-646 an hour.
3. Although it's a group session, you can increase the workload as you get fitter. Avoid boredom by looking out for classes with video screens that take you on a virtual ride through pleasant scenery.
4. Pedalling works most of the muscles in the legs and buttocks, so you will get an unbelievably toned lower body. But your heart and lungs are the biggest beneficiaries.

### **Step**

1. After four weeks of twice-weekly classes.
2. 510-612 per hour (depending on height of step).
3. You will notice changes in your body shape fairly quickly, but there are only so many times you can step on to a platform before utter boredom takes hold.
4. A study carried out in California showed that people who did step for six months experienced a 3.3% increase in the bone density of their spines, and hip and leg bones. It has good aerobic benefits as well as toning muscles in the bottom and legs.