---
tags:
  - Angol
---
**I sighed when I glanced at the email on my phone.** It was from a woman called ==Constance==, a complete stranger to me, who ==was under the impression that we'd been in a relationship for several months==. It has become an all-too-familiar story. ==Over the past two years, my photos have been used to con 11 women on dating websites==. These are just the ones I know about; the real number could be much higher.

I rang Constance and listened as she explained ==she'd met a man called Martin Peterson on Elite Singles==. He said he was ==Danish and a widower==. Constance had joined the website hoping to find love, after ==losing her husband three years earlier==, and Martin had seemed kind und understanding. ==He was interested in everything about her==, texting her every morning and ringig her for cosy chats in the evening. But on his dating profile were several photos, which were in fact, of me! She forwarded me the pictures, and I ==shuddered== when I saw one of ==me and my sister, who Martin had said was his dead wife==.

Constance had begun to be suspicious of Martin when she noticed his hair colour and style change within the space of a few hours. ==He claimed he was on a business trip==, and sent her a ==photo of== me ==sitting in a hotel garden having breakfast==, with my ==curly grey hair in need of a trim==. ==Later in the day==, he sent a second ==photo of me by a swimming pool==, in which my ==hair was shorter and darker==. In fact, ==these photos had been taken several years apart== and had been =='harvested' from my Facebook account==. Constance began to look carefully at all the pictures he had sent. She researched dating scams online and found a way to find out where a picture had originated. By dragging a picture of Martin into a =='reverse images search' on Google==, she discovered that the ==pictures of the man she'd believed to be a Danish widower were actually of me, a public speaker from Brighton==.

People like 'Martin' are known to ==prey on== older women. First, ==they gain their trust== and ==bombard them with attention==, then ==they say they are travelling abroad for work==, where they are ==involved in an accident==. Finally, they ==ask the woman to transfer money for medical treatment or flights home==. A few years ago, I scratched my face and posted a ==photo online of me with blood on my face==. This picture has now been used by the scammer several times - ==he sends it alongside a picture of a smashed-up car, and says he's been involved in a serious accident==. Fortunately, Constance didn't ==hand over== any money. But other women have, including one woman who lost thousands of pounds.

These days, ==I'm a lot more conscious of what I post online==. ==I always used to share pictures of everything==: holidays by the pool, work speeches, me and my dog, fancy dress parties... Now I've ==changed my privacy settings on social media==. I suppose my account was ==targeted== because I had a ==range of photos and the scammer could build a whole life from them==. An expert told me that my pictures had probably been ==sold on as a bundle on the black market==. I now ==encourage all my friends and family to be wary about what they post== - once they're out there, there's nothing you can do about it. Unfortunately for me, ==my identity is no longer my own==.