---
tags:
  - Upper-Intermediate
  - 9B
---
Is there an 'art of making attractive cities'? Alain de Botton, writer and founder of alternative education group *The school of Life*, seems to think so, and has made a video that he claims explains just how to do it. 'It's not a mystery why we like some cities so much better than others.' he says. 'There are six fundamental things a city needs to get right.'

#### Order and variety
A love of order is one of the reasons people love Paris and New York, but we must avoid too much of it. The key is to create an 'organized complexity'. De Botton gives the example of the square in Telc, Czech Republic, where the individual houses are different colour and detail, but all the buildings are the same height and width.

#### Visible life
Streets need to be full of people and activity in order to be beautiful instead of bleak. Sadly, modern cities often contain too many characterless office blocks and industrial zones where there is no street life.

#### Compactness
Good cities are compact, not sprawling. Think Barcelona as opposed to a spread-out city like Phoenix, Arizona. De Botton says that attractive cities have beautiful squares which are ideal meeting places. The best designed are those which are not too large, so that people can recognize a face on the other side of the square.

#### Orientation and mystery
The best cities offer a mixture of big and small streets. But too many cities prioritize vehicles over humans. A city should be easy to navigate for both humans and vehicles, with big boulevards for orientation and small streets to allow us to warder and create a sense of mystery and exploration.

#### Scale
Our urban skylines have become dominated by tall buildings dedicated to banking and commerce. Instead, we should be building at an ideal height of five stories, resulting in dense and medium-rise cities, like Berlin and Amsterdam.

#### Local colour
The sameness of cities is a problem. Cities need to demonstrate their local culture and history. They should be bulit from locally sourced materials in a way which suits their individual climate and traditions.