---
tags:
  - Upper-Intermediate
  - 10A
---
Just how plausible are the ideas we hear about in science-fiction? *LiveScience* examines some popular concepts.
--

#### Aliens that look like us
Many fictional aliens have a human-type body. But how likely is it that intelligent alien life would develop a body shape similar to ours? It seems unlikely that organisms evolving for millions of years on another world would fit comfortably into our clothes. But the evolutionary circumstances on alien planets may have been similar to those that led humans to develop arms and legs, and fingers to manipulate tools. Some scientists say that our two-legged, symmetrical body shape could be the 'optimal design for an intelligent being'. Perhaps there is no other choice than for intelligent aliens to look like humans.

#### Travelling faster than light
Einstein's general theory of relativity says that nothing can travel faster than light. However, this theory doesn't place limits on the speed at which space expands or contracts. Some physicists believe that faster-than-light travel is a real possibility. A type of energy bubble around a spaceship, for instance, could in theory make space-time contract in front of the ship and expand behind it. Gerald Cleaver, a physicist at Baylor University, says that the objects inside the bubble would move faster than the speed of light in relation to the space around.

#### Teleportation
Digital information can be transmitted via computers, and in a similar way, some physicists have transmitted another type of information (called quantum information) nearly 10 miles (16 kms). However, this is a long way from teleporting actual material, or indeed, a person. Scientifically speaking, teleportation faces extreme obstacles. There are ideas for how to do it, but these are only speculative at the moment.

#### Invisibility cloaks
In the Star Trek universe, enemies hide, or 'cloak', their spaceships. Scientists say that anti-detection technologies might be possible, but invisibility cloaks like those in science-fiction and fantasy are quite a way off. 'What you see in Harry Potter is far-fetched,' says David Smith, professor of electrical and computer engineering at Duke University. 'However, in the last few years, researchers have made a lot of progress on making object invisible. Partial cloaks that work like sophisticated camouflage - rather like the alien in the 1987 move *Predator* - might be achievable', says Smith.

#### Intelligent machines
Robots and computers are already far better than humans at factory work or calculations. However, machines still cannot manage many basic activities, such as tying a shoelace while having a conversation. 'From 50 to 60 years of Artificial Intelligence research, we know that teaching machines to do a specific task, for example, playing a game, is a lot easier than creating a machine that has the common sense of a three-year-old child,' said Shlomo Zilberstein, a professor of computer science. Many scientists believe that highly intelligent machines will be available in the coming decades. But it is questionable whether computers will achieve the human-like ability to feel or understand free will - an idea at the heart of many sci-fi stories.

#### Instant learning
In the film *The Matrix* knowledge can be uploaded into the brain in seconds, via a computer plugged into the skull. Some emerging research suggests that the speed at which we learn a skill can be technologically boosted. For instance, scientists have managed to stimulate the brain to improve performance of visual tasks. Perhaps someday, the acquisition of knowledge and skill could happen at broadband-like speeds via surgically implanted and plug-in hardware. 'The concept is not totally implausible,' says neuroscientist Bruce McNaughton. 'But it might take a couple of hundred years.'